Add overview docs (#553)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/overview/what-is-qsharp.md

---
title: What is Q#?
description: Learn about the Q#, a programming language created by Microsoft to develop applications for quantum computers
author: natke
ms.author:  nakersha
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
uid: microsoft.quantum.overview.qsharp
---

# What is Q#?

Q# is a programming language created by Microsoft to develop applications for quantum computers.

The Q# programming language takes care of all the quantum computer's internal logic and provides you with an intuitive set of types, operations and logic expressions to develop algorithms without having to worry about the internal logic of the quantum computer.

> ## We want to code algorithms, not to draw circuits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## We want to code algorithms, not draw circuits
```

Author: Fixed

> In [What is quantum computing?[(xref:microsoft.quantum.overview.whatis)] we saw that we can write quantum computations as quantum circuits like we do in classical computing. The circuit model has been very useful for many years in quantum computing research.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In [What is quantum computing?](xref:microsoft.quantum.overview.whatis) we saw that we can write quantum computations as quantum circuits like we do in classical computing. The circuit model has been very useful for many years in quantum computing research.
```

> However, when we write classical programs for normal computers, we don’t think in terms of circuits but in terms of logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, when writing classical programs for normal computers, we of course no longer think of them in terms of AND/OR gates or assembly language.
```
This (or something similar) would flow nicely into Eduardo/Megan's suggestion below.

Here in Microsoft, we believe in empowering developers to go beyond quantum circuits by offering the tools to develop quantum algorithms. Q# allows you to use the knowledge of other high level programming languages and apply them to developing applications on quantum computers.

## How does Q# work?

> Q# is a programming language designed to be great a writing quantum programs, by providing features that are special to quantum computing. Q# provides quantum programmers a framework that allows them to focus on the algorithms without having to care about technical details like gate sequence optimization or the physical implementation of a quantum computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q# is a programming language designed to be great at writing quantum programs, by providing features that are special to quantum computing. Q# provides quantum programmers a framework that allows them to focus on the algorithms without having to care about technical details like gate sequence optimization or the physical implementation of a quantum computer.
```

Author: FIxed

> Q# is a programming language designed to be great a writing quantum programs, by providing features that are special to quantum computing. Q# provides quantum programmers a framework that allows them to focus on the algorithms without having to care about technical details like gate sequence optimization or the physical implementation of a quantum computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q# is a programming language designed to be great at writing quantum programs by providing features that align with the uniqueness of quantum computing. Q# provides quantum programmers a framework that allows them to focus on the algorithms without having to care about technical details like gate sequence optimization or the physical implementation of a quantum computer.
```

Author: Fixed

For example, one of the fundamental building blocks of Q# is the `Qubit` type, which cannot be copied or directly accessed, just like a real qubit. Instead, we can measure it and store the outcome of the measurement in a `Result` variable, a Q# type that can take two possible values: `Zero` and `One`. Constructs like this one guarantee that algorithms always respect the laws of quantum mechanics and can run correctly on quantum computers or simulators.

> Q# also includes classical logic features like conditionals or loops with some subtleties to make sure that all the quantum rules are being respected. For example, quantum operations need to be reversible. This enforces some constraints on the way loops are executed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
I think we agreed on suppressing this paragraph

> Q# programs are often paired with a host program written in C# or Python, which can provide convenient organization of classical and quantum code. In addition to supporting .NET languages such as C# and Python, the QDK provides Jupyter Notebook support with the IQ# Jupyter kernel.

Reviewer 3: We should explain this a bit more in detail. There are new comments about this in the word document. We can talk about it in today's meeting.

## Use Q# to learn quantum computing

Until now, to learn quantum computing you needed to learn the circuit model to understand the algorithms in the form of ordered sequences of quantum gates and measurements. With Q# you can take another path: learn quantum computing by writing quantum programs.

> Q# provides you with an increasing number of libraries and user-defined types that will help you to implement tools and functions already created by others to build advanced quantum algorithms. For example, you need to entangle two-qubits q1 and q2? Instead of applying individually the necessary gates to get the qubits entangled you can use the already built-in operation `PrepareEntangledState(q1, q2)`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Q# provides you with an increasing number of libraries and user-defined types that will help you to leverage existing functionalities to build advanced quantum algorithms. For example, to entangle two qubits `q1` and `q2` instead of applying each of the individual gates you can use the built-in operation `PrepareEntangledState(q1, q2)`.
```
Updating this paragraph to the last version of the word document

> Q# provides you with an increasing number of libraries and user-defined types that will help you to implement tools and functions already created by others to build advanced quantum algorithms. For example, you need to entangle two-qubits q1 and q2? Instead of applying individually the necessary gates to get the qubits entangled you can use the already built-in operation `PrepareEntangledState(q1, q2)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Q# provides you with an increasing number of libraries and user-defined types that will help you to implement tools and functions already created by others to build advanced quantum algorithms. For example, you need to entangle two-qubits q1 and q2? Instead of applying individually the necessary gates to get the qubits entangled you can use the already built-in operation `PrepareEntangledState([q1], [q2])`.
```

> Just as in classical computing, building programs on top of what others have already created will empower you to solve greater challenges. To know more about how you can learn quantum computing by coding in Q# check out [How to learn quantum computing?](xref:microsoft.quantum.overview.learn).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just as in classical computing, building programs on top of what others have already created will empower you to solve greater challenges. To know more about how you can learn quantum computing by coding in Q# check out [How to learn quantum computing](xref:microsoft.quantum.overview.learn).
```

Author: Fixed
